README.md, before:

# FlowLang

A language that is highly inspired by Golang's Goroutines and Channels.

It will be a compiled, garbage collected language implemented in Zig. 

It is primarily a personal project to learn how to implement concurrency models on top of threads,
as well as how to make and design a toy language from scratch.

## Features and Details

Non-exhaustive list of some of the biggest and most important features planned:

- Easy, Colorless concurrency model
- Gargabe Collection
- Byte-Code VM shipped in the final executable
- Uses the Zig Buildsystem for Compilation
- Extendable VM (through Zig Modules)
- Type-Safe

## Try it out!

The file `example/src/main.flow` shows the current possible things that the flow compiler supports.

This language uses the zig build system, so to use Flow you have to have zig installed.

You need to create a build.zig file and put the following contents:

```zig
const std = @import("std");
const flow = @import("flow");

pub fn build(b: *std.Build) void {
    const target = b.standardTargetOptions(.{});
    const optimize = b.standardOptimizeOptions(.{});

    const flow_out = flow.compile(b, .{
        .name = "flow-example",
        .source = b.path("src/main.flow"),
        .target = target,
        .optimize = optimize,
    });

    b.installArtifact(flow_out);

    const run_flow = b.addRunArtifact(flow_out);
    const run_step = b.step("run", "Run the code directly");
    run_step.dependOn(&run_flow.step);
}
```

You can change the name and source entries. If you know your way around the buildsystem, you can of
course do some more crazy things, but this setup is enough to get you started with just Flow.

Now, to get flow itself, you need to fetch it with this:

```bash
zig fetch --save=flow git+https://gitlab.com/nihklas/flowlang.git
```

Now you can run `zig build` to compile your project and get the binary under `zig-out/bin/<binary>`
or you run the code with `zig build run` directly.

### Extensions

Flow supports extensions for the runtime and compiler. That means, you can write
Zig Modules to implement performance critical tasks and export them to be
globally available functions in Flow-Land. For an example on how to write an
extension yourself, you can look at [betterAdd](https://gitlab.com/flowlang/betteradd).

You can fetch the module via Zig's package manager:

```bash
zig fetch --save git+https://gitlab.com/flowlang/betteradd
```

Here is the modified `build.zig` from above to include this example module:

```zig
const std = @import("std");
const flow = @import("flow");

pub fn build(b: *std.Build) void {
    const target = b.standardTargetOptions(.{});
    const optimize = b.standardOptimizeOption(.{});

    const betterAdd = b.dependency("betterAdd", .{});

    const flow_out = flow.compile(b, .{
        .name = "flow-example",
        .source = b.path("src/test.flow"),
        .target = target,
        .optimize = optimize,
        .extension = .{
            .modules = &.{.{ .name = "betterAdd", .module = betterAdd.module("betterAdd") }},
            .export_file = b.path("exports.zig"),
        },
    });

    b.installArtifact(flow_out);

    const run_flow = b.addRunArtifact(flow_out);
    const run_step = b.step("run", "Run the code directly");
    run_step.dependOn(&run_flow.step);
}
```

## Syntax and Grammar

[Current Grammar](https://bnfplayground.pauliankline.com/?bnf=%3CDIGIT%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%5B0-9%5D%0A%3CALPHA%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%5Ba-z%5D%20%7C%20%5BA-Z%5D%20%7C%20%22_%22%0A%3CNUMBER%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CDIGIT%3E*%20%20(%22.%22%20%3CDIGIT%3E%2B%20)%3F%0A%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CALPHA%3E%20(%3CALPHA%3E%20%7C%20%3CDIGIT%3E)*%0A%2F*%20Any%20character%20between%20the%20quotes%20*%2F%0A%3CSTRING%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%5C%22%22%20(%5Ba-z%5D%20%7C%20%5BA-Z%5D%20%7C%20%5B0-9%5D)*%20%22%5C%22%22%0A%3CBOOL%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22true%22%20%7C%20%22false%22%0A%3CNULL%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22null%22%0A%2F*%20Whitespace%20gets%20ignored%20for%20the%20most%20part%2C%20this%20rule%20is%20needed%20for%20this%20Editor%20*%2F%0A%3CWS%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20(%22%20%22%20%7C%20%22%5Cn%22)%2B%0A%2F*%20There%20is%20no%20EOF%20Symbol%20in%20this%20Editor%20*%2F%0A%3CEOF%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%20%22%0A%0A%2F*%20Utilities%20*%2F%0A%3CtypeHint%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%3A%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%5B%5D%22%3F%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%0A%3CparamHint%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CtypeHint%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22channel%22%3F%0A%3Carguments%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cexpression%3E%20(%22%2C%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E)*%0A%3Cparameters%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CparamHint%3E%20(%22%2C%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CparamHint%3E)*%0A%0A%3Cprimary%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%7C%20%3CSTRING%3E%20%7C%20%3CNUMBER%3E%20%7C%20%3CBOOL%3E%20%7C%20%3CNULL%3E%20%7C%20%22this%22%20%7C%20%22(%22%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22)%22%20%7C%20%22%5B%22%20%3Cexpression%3E*%20%22%5D%22%0A%3Ccall%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cprimary%3E%20(%22(%22%20%3Carguments%3E%3F%20%22)%22)*%0A%3Cunary%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20((%22!%22%20%7C%20%22-%22)%20%3Cunary%3E)%20%7C%20%3Ccall%3E%0A%3Cfactor%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cunary%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%2F%22%20%7C%20%22*%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cunary%3E)*%0A%3Cterm%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cfactor%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%2B%22%20%7C%20%22-%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cfactor%3E)*%0A%3Ccomparison%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cterm%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%3C%22%20%7C%20%22%3C%3D%22%20%7C%20%22%3E%3D%22%20%7C%20%22%3E%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cterm%3E)*%0A%3Cequality%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Ccomparison%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%3D%3D%22%20%7C%20%22!%3D%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Ccomparison%3E)*%0A%3Cand%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cequality%3E%20(%3CWS%3E%20%22and%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cequality%3E)*%0A%3Cor%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cand%3E%20(%3CWS%3E%20%22or%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cand%3E)*%0A%3Cconcat%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cor%3E%20(%3CWS%3E%20%22.%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cor%3E)*%0A%3Cassignment%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3D%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%0A%3Cappend%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%5B%5D%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3D%22%20%3Cexpression%3E%0A%0A%3Cexpression%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cassignment%3E%20%7C%20%3Cappend%3E%20%7C%20%3Cconcat%3E%0A%0A%3Cstatement%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CexprStmt%3E%20%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CforStmt%3E%20%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CbreakStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CcontinueStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CifStmt%3E%20%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CreturnStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CchnReadStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CchnWriteStmt%3E%0A%09%7C%20%3Cblock%3E%20%0A%0A%3CexprStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3Cblock%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%7B%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cdeclaration%3E*%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%7D%22%0A%3CforStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22for%22%20%3CWS%3E%20(%3CexprStmt%3E%20%7C%20%3CvarDecl%3E%20%7C%20%22%3B%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E%0A%3CbreakStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22break%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CcontinueStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22continue%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CifStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22if%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20(%22else%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E)%3F%0A%3CreturnStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22return%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CchnReadStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22-%3E%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CchnWriteStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3C-%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CflowStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22flow%22%20%3CWS%3E%20(%3Ccall%3E%20%7C%20%3Cblock%3E)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%0A%3Cdeclaration%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cstatement%3E%0A%09%7C%20%3CvarDecl%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CchannelDecl%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CfunctionDecl%3E%0A%0A%3CvarDecl%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20(%22var%22%20%7C%20%22const%22)%20%3CWS%3E%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CtypeHint%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20(%22%3D%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E)%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CchannelDecl%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22channel%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CtypeHint%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CfunctionDecl%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22func%22%20(%3CWS%3E%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E)%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22(%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cparameters%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22)%22%0A%09(%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22use%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22(%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Carguments%3E%3F%20%22)%22)%3F%0A%09%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cblock%3E%0A%20%20%20%0A%3Cprogram%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cdeclaration%3E*%20%3CEOF%3E&name=)

### Types

- bool
- int
- float
- string
- channel
- struct (later)
- array (later)

### Literals

- Digits/Numbers (`1`, `1234`, `12.34`)
- String Literals (`"String"`) 
- `true`/`false`
- `null`

### Operators

```
// arithmetic
+, -, *, /

// Comparison
==, <=, >=, != 

// Logical
and, or

// Unary
!, -

// String concat
.

// shorthands for assignment
+=
-=
*=
/=
%=
.=
```

### Variables / Constants

```
var x: int = 1;
var y: int;
var z = 1;

const a: string = "hello";
const b: string;
const c = "world";
```

### Control Structures

Blocks:
```
{
    // This is a block
}
```

Conditionals:
```
if condition block

---

if condition block
else block
```

Loops:

```
for initializer;condition;continue-expr block
```

Functions:

```
func identifier(age: int, decimal: float, name: string, flag: bool, chn: int channel) returntype block

---

// closure / anonymous function
func(parameters) use (closure-values) returntype block

---

// method on a struct
meth identifier(parameters) returntype block
```

Channel:

```
channel id: int;

--- 

// (chn is a channel "object")

// reading
chn -> variable

// writing
chn <- value
```

### Async function-call / Execution

```
flow call()

flow {
    a = 1;
}
```

### Errors

`err` is a keyword, which itself is the value of the current error in a catch block. It can also be
used to create or reference an Error

```
func() catch block

try func()
// this is the same as:
func() catch return err

//Errors must be specified in the return type with an Exclamation Mark (`!`)
func thisMayFail() !void block

//To create an error:
var myError = err.MyErrorName
if myError == err.MyErrorName block
```

### Implementation notes

Byte code is split into 3 simple sections:

- constants
- top-level functions
- main code

Commit message:

Added example of exports.zig

README.md, after:

# FlowLang

A language that is highly inspired by Golang's Goroutines and Channels.

It will be a compiled, garbage collected language implemented in Zig. 

It is primarily a personal project to learn how to implement concurrency models on top of threads,
as well as how to make and design a toy language from scratch.

## Features and Details

Non-exhaustive list of some of the biggest and most important features planned:

- Easy, Colorless concurrency model
- Gargabe Collection
- Byte-Code VM shipped in the final executable
- Uses the Zig Buildsystem for Compilation
- Extendable VM (through Zig Modules)
- Type-Safe

## Try it out!

The file `example/src/main.flow` shows the current possible things that the flow compiler supports.

This language uses the zig build system, so to use Flow you have to have zig installed.

You need to create a build.zig file and put the following contents:

```zig
const std = @import("std");
const flow = @import("flow");

pub fn build(b: *std.Build) void {
    const target = b.standardTargetOptions(.{});
    const optimize = b.standardOptimizeOptions(.{});

    const flow_out = flow.compile(b, .{
        .name = "flow-example",
        .source = b.path("src/main.flow"),
        .target = target,
        .optimize = optimize,
    });

    b.installArtifact(flow_out);

    const run_flow = b.addRunArtifact(flow_out);
    const run_step = b.step("run", "Run the code directly");
    run_step.dependOn(&run_flow.step);
}
```

You can change the name and source entries. If you know your way around the buildsystem, you can of
course do some more crazy things, but this setup is enough to get you started with just Flow.

Now, to get flow itself, you need to fetch it with this:

```bash
zig fetch --save=flow git+https://gitlab.com/nihklas/flowlang.git
```

Now you can run `zig build` to compile your project and get the binary under `zig-out/bin/<binary>`
or you run the code with `zig build run` directly.

### Extensions

Flow supports extensions for the runtime and compiler. That means, you can write
Zig Modules to implement performance critical tasks and export them to be
globally available functions in Flow-Land. For an example on how to write an
extension yourself, you can look at [betterAdd](https://gitlab.com/flowlang/betteradd).

You can fetch the module via Zig's package manager:

```bash
zig fetch --save git+https://gitlab.com/flowlang/betteradd
```

You also need a Zig file, where you re-export all the functions you need. That
way, you can also import a Module, but only use a single function, and the rest
of the Module will not be included in the compiled output. The `exports.zig` of
the example looks simply like this:

```zig
const lib = @import("betterAdd");

pub const betterAdd = lib.betterAdd;
```

This `exports.zig` includes all modules exports the functions that are needed.
You can define different names for these functions in here as well, to avoid
naming collisions.

Here is the modified `build.zig` from above to include this example module:

```zig
const std = @import("std");
const flow = @import("flow");

pub fn build(b: *std.Build) void {
    const target = b.standardTargetOptions(.{});
    const optimize = b.standardOptimizeOption(.{});

    const betterAdd = b.dependency("betterAdd", .{});

    const flow_out = flow.compile(b, .{
        .name = "flow-example",
        .source = b.path("src/test.flow"),
        .target = target,
        .optimize = optimize,
        .extension = .{
            .modules = &.{.{ .name = "betterAdd", .module = betterAdd.module("betterAdd") }},
            .export_file = b.path("exports.zig"),
        },
    });

    b.installArtifact(flow_out);

    const run_flow = b.addRunArtifact(flow_out);
    const run_step = b.step("run", "Run the code directly");
    run_step.dependOn(&run_flow.step);
}
```

## Syntax and Grammar

[Current Grammar](https://bnfplayground.pauliankline.com/?bnf=%3CDIGIT%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%5B0-9%5D%0A%3CALPHA%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%5Ba-z%5D%20%7C%20%5BA-Z%5D%20%7C%20%22_%22%0A%3CNUMBER%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CDIGIT%3E*%20%20(%22.%22%20%3CDIGIT%3E%2B%20)%3F%0A%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CALPHA%3E%20(%3CALPHA%3E%20%7C%20%3CDIGIT%3E)*%0A%2F*%20Any%20character%20between%20the%20quotes%20*%2F%0A%3CSTRING%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%5C%22%22%20(%5Ba-z%5D%20%7C%20%5BA-Z%5D%20%7C%20%5B0-9%5D)*%20%22%5C%22%22%0A%3CBOOL%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22true%22%20%7C%20%22false%22%0A%3CNULL%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22null%22%0A%2F*%20Whitespace%20gets%20ignored%20for%20the%20most%20part%2C%20this%20rule%20is%20needed%20for%20this%20Editor%20*%2F%0A%3CWS%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20(%22%20%22%20%7C%20%22%5Cn%22)%2B%0A%2F*%20There%20is%20no%20EOF%20Symbol%20in%20this%20Editor%20*%2F%0A%3CEOF%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%20%22%0A%0A%2F*%20Utilities%20*%2F%0A%3CtypeHint%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%3A%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%5B%5D%22%3F%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%0A%3CparamHint%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CtypeHint%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22channel%22%3F%0A%3Carguments%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cexpression%3E%20(%22%2C%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E)*%0A%3Cparameters%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CparamHint%3E%20(%22%2C%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CparamHint%3E)*%0A%0A%3Cprimary%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%7C%20%3CSTRING%3E%20%7C%20%3CNUMBER%3E%20%7C%20%3CBOOL%3E%20%7C%20%3CNULL%3E%20%7C%20%22this%22%20%7C%20%22(%22%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22)%22%20%7C%20%22%5B%22%20%3Cexpression%3E*%20%22%5D%22%0A%3Ccall%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cprimary%3E%20(%22(%22%20%3Carguments%3E%3F%20%22)%22)*%0A%3Cunary%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20((%22!%22%20%7C%20%22-%22)%20%3Cunary%3E)%20%7C%20%3Ccall%3E%0A%3Cfactor%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cunary%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%2F%22%20%7C%20%22*%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cunary%3E)*%0A%3Cterm%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cfactor%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%2B%22%20%7C%20%22-%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cfactor%3E)*%0A%3Ccomparison%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cterm%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%3C%22%20%7C%20%22%3C%3D%22%20%7C%20%22%3E%3D%22%20%7C%20%22%3E%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cterm%3E)*%0A%3Cequality%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Ccomparison%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20((%22%3D%3D%22%20%7C%20%22!%3D%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Ccomparison%3E)*%0A%3Cand%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cequality%3E%20(%3CWS%3E%20%22and%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cequality%3E)*%0A%3Cor%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cand%3E%20(%3CWS%3E%20%22or%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cand%3E)*%0A%3Cconcat%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cor%3E%20(%3CWS%3E%20%22.%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cor%3E)*%0A%3Cassignment%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3D%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%0A%3Cappend%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%5B%5D%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3D%22%20%3Cexpression%3E%0A%0A%3Cexpression%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cassignment%3E%20%7C%20%3Cappend%3E%20%7C%20%3Cconcat%3E%0A%0A%3Cstatement%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CexprStmt%3E%20%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CforStmt%3E%20%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CbreakStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CcontinueStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CifStmt%3E%20%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CreturnStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CchnReadStmt%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CchnWriteStmt%3E%0A%09%7C%20%3Cblock%3E%20%0A%0A%3CexprStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3Cblock%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22%7B%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cdeclaration%3E*%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%7D%22%0A%3CforStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22for%22%20%3CWS%3E%20(%3CexprStmt%3E%20%7C%20%3CvarDecl%3E%20%7C%20%22%3B%22)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E%0A%3CbreakStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22break%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CcontinueStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22continue%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CifStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22if%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20(%22else%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cstatement%3E)%3F%0A%3CreturnStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22return%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CchnReadStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22-%3E%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CchnWriteStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3C-%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CflowStmt%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22flow%22%20%3CWS%3E%20(%3Ccall%3E%20%7C%20%3Cblock%3E)%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%0A%3Cdeclaration%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cstatement%3E%0A%09%7C%20%3CvarDecl%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CchannelDecl%3E%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20%3CfunctionDecl%3E%0A%0A%3CvarDecl%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20(%22var%22%20%7C%20%22const%22)%20%3CWS%3E%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CtypeHint%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20(%22%3D%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cexpression%3E)%3F%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CchannelDecl%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22channel%22%20%3CWS%3E%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3CtypeHint%3E%20%22%3B%22%0A%3CfunctionDecl%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%22func%22%20(%3CWS%3E%20%3CIDENTIFIER%3E)%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22(%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cparameters%3E%3F%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22)%22%0A%09(%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22use%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%22(%22%20%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Carguments%3E%3F%20%22)%22)%3F%0A%09%3CWS%3E%3F%20%3Cblock%3E%0A%20%20%20%0A%3Cprogram%3E%20%3A%3A%3D%20%3Cdeclaration%3E*%20%3CEOF%3E&name=)

### Types

- bool
- int
- float
- string
- channel
- struct (later)
- array (later)

### Literals

- Digits/Numbers (`1`, `1234`, `12.34`)
- String Literals (`"String"`) 
- `true`/`false`
- `null`

### Operators

```
// arithmetic
+, -, *, /

// Comparison
==, <=, >=, != 

// Logical
and, or

// Unary
!, -

// String concat
.

// shorthands for assignment
+=
-=
*=
/=
%=
.=
```

### Variables / Constants

```
var x: int = 1;
var y: int;
var z = 1;

const a: string = "hello";
const b: string;
const c = "world";
```

### Control Structures

Blocks:
```
{
    // This is a block
}
```

Conditionals:
```
if condition block

---

if condition block
else block
```

Loops:

```
for initializer;condition;continue-expr block
```

Functions:

```
func identifier(age: int, decimal: float, name: string, flag: bool, chn: int channel) returntype block

---

// closure / anonymous function
func(parameters) use (closure-values) returntype block

---

// method on a struct
meth identifier(parameters) returntype block
```

Channel:

```
channel id: int;

--- 

// (chn is a channel "object")

// reading
chn -> variable

// writing
chn <- value
```

### Async function-call / Execution

```
flow call()

flow {
    a = 1;
}
```

### Errors

`err` is a keyword, which itself is the value of the current error in a catch block. It can also be
used to create or reference an Error

```
func() catch block

try func()
// this is the same as:
func() catch return err

//Errors must be specified in the return type with an Exclamation Mark (`!`)
func thisMayFail() !void block

//To create an error:
var myError = err.MyErrorName
if myError == err.MyErrorName block
```

### Implementation notes

Byte code is split into 3 simple sections:

- constants
- top-level functions
- main code
